Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
May 2015

EDWARD MICHAEL “MIKE” FINCKE (COLONEL, U.S. AIR FORCE, RETIRED)
NASA ASTRONAUT

Pronunciation: ED-wurd MY-kull “MY-k” FEEN-k
Follow Mike on Twitter

PERSONAL DATA: Born March 14, 1967, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, but considers
Emsworth, Pennsylvania, to be his hometown. Married to the former Renita Saikia of
Houston, Texas. They have three children. In addition to time with his family, Col. Fincke
enjoys travel, geology, astronomy, learning new languages and reading. He is conversant in
Japanese and Russian. His parents, Edward and Alma Fincke, reside in Emsworth,
Pennsylvania. Renita’s parents, Rupesh and Probha Saikia, formerly of Assam, India, reside
in Houston, Texas.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Sewickley Academy, Sewickley, Pennsylvania, in 1985. He
attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) on an Air Force Reserve Officers’
Training Corps (ROTC) scholarship and graduated in 1989 with a Bachelor of Science in
Click photo for downloadable high-res version
Aeronautics and Astronautics as well as a Bachelor of Science in Earth, Atmospheric and
Planetary Sciences. This was followed by a Master of Science in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University in 1990.
He was awarded an Associate of Science Degree in Earth Sciences (geology) from El Camino College in Torrance, California, in
1993 and a second Master of Science in Physical Sciences (planetary geology) from the University of Houston - Clear Lake in
2001.
SPECIAL HONORS: In addition to two NASA Distinguished Service Medals and three NASA Spaceflight Medals, Colonel
Fincke is a recipient of the first International Space Station Leadership Award as well as the Defense Superior Service Medal,
Legion of Merit, and Meritorious Service Medals, among others for his military service. He is a Distinguished Graduate from the
U.S. Air Force ROTC, Squadron Officer School and Test Pilot School Programs and the recipient of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot
School Col. Ray Jones Award as the Top Flight Test Engineer/Flight Test Navigator in class 93B.
EXPERIENCE: Col. Fincke graduated from MIT in 1989 and immediately attended a summer exchange program with the
Moscow Aviation Institute in the former Soviet Union where he studied cosmonautics. Upon graduation from Stanford University
in 1990, he entered the United States Air Force where he “washed out” of the Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training program and
then was reassigned as a Space Systems Engineer and a Space Test Engineer at Los Angeles Air Force Base. As a Flight Test
Engineer at Edwards and Eglin Air Force Bases, he flew in F-16 and F-15 aircraft. In January 1996, he reported to the Gifu Test
Center, Gifu Air Base, Japan, where he was the United States Flight Test Liaison to the Japanese/United States XF-2 fighter
program. Col. Fincke has over 1,100 flight hours in more than 30 different aircraft types.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Selected by NASA in April 1996, Col. Fincke reported to the Johnson Space Center where he completed
two years of training and evaluation. He was assigned technical duties in the Astronaut Office Station Operations Branch, serving
as an International Space Station Capsule Communicator (CAPCOM), a member of the Crew Test Support Team in Russia and as
the space station Crew Procedures Team Lead. He also served as a backup crewmember for Expeditions 4 and 6 as well as backup
commander for Expeditions 13 and 16. He is qualified to fly as a left-seat flight engineer (co-pilot) on the Russian Soyuz TM and
TMA spacecraft. He was the commander of the second NASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations (NEEMO 2) mission,
living and working underwater for 7 days in May of 2002, and was on the CAVES 2012 crew, living underground and exploring
for six days, sponsored by the European Space Agency in September 2012.
Col. Fincke was previously in the Exploration Branch of the Astronaut Office where he supported NASA’s Commercial Crew
Program and served as a space station CAPCOM. Currently, he serves as Branch Chief for the Commerical Crew Branch.

SPACEFLIGHT EXPERIENCE: Expedition 9 (April 18 to October 23, 2004). Expedition 9 launched from the Baikonur
Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan, aboard the Soyuz TMA-4 spacecraft. As the NASA space station science officer and flight
engineer, Col. Fincke spent six months aboard the station, continuing science operations, maintaining station systems and
performing four spacewalks. The Expedition 9 mission concluded with undocking from the station and safe landing back in
Kazakhstan on October 23, 2004.
Expedition 18 (October 12, 2008 to April 8, 2009). Expedition 18 launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan,
aboard the Soyuz TMA-13 spacecraft. As the commander, Fincke and his three-person crew helped prepare the station for
future six-person crews and hosted the space shuttle crews of STS-126 and STS-119. The Expedition 18 mission concluded
with undocking from the station and safe landing back in Kazakhstan on April 8, 2009.
STS-134 (May 16 to June 1, 2011). The STS-134 mission marked the final flight of Space Shuttle Endeavour. Fincke served
as mission specialist 1 on the flight deck and as one of the spacewalkers and robotic arm operators. The STS-134 crew
delivered the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS), a state-of-the-art cosmic ray particle physics detector, to the
International Space Station.
Col. Fincke has a total of 381 days, 15 hours and 11 minutes in orbit and has logged 48 hours and 37 minutes of EVA time
on nine spacewalks.

Click photo for downloadable high-res version

Click photo for downloadable high-res version

