Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
January 2016

MICHAEL S. HOPKINS (COLONEL, U.S. AIR FORCE)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: MY-kull HOP-kins
Follow Michael on Twitter

PERSONAL DATA: Born in Lebanon, Missouri, he grew up on a farm outside
Richland, Missouri. Married to the former Julie Stutz of Peoria, Illinois. They
have two sons. Recreational interests include backpacking, camping, snow
skiing, weight lifting, running, hockey and football. His mother and stepfather,
Barbara and Dennis Duffy, reside in Camdenton, Missouri. His father, Ogle
Hopkins, is deceased and his stepmother, Paula Hertwig Hopkins, resides in
Warrensburg, Missouri.
EDUCATION: School of the Osage High School, Lake of the Ozarks,
Missouri, 1987; Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering, University of
Illinois, 1991; Master of Science in Aerospace Engineering, Stanford
University, 1992.

Click photo for downloadable
high-res version

SPECIAL HONORS: Team Captain, 1991 University of Illinois Football Team; Distinguished Graduate, Reserve Officers
Training Corps, University of Illinois; Distinguished Graduate and top flight test engineer in United States Air Force Test
Pilot School Class 96B; Defense Meritorious Service Medal; Meritorious Service Medal; Aerial Achievement Medal; two
Air Force Commendation Medals and three Air Force Achievement Medals.
EXPERIENCE: Hopkins was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the United States Air Force in January 1992. In
April 1993, he was assigned to Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, New Mexico, where he worked on advanced space
system technologies. In 1996, he attended the flight test engineering course at the United States Air Force Test Pilot School,
Edwards Air Force Base, California. Following graduation in 1997, he worked at the 418 Flight Test Squadron, testing C-17
and C-130 aircraft. In 1999, he moved to Cold Lake, Alberta, as an exchange officer with the Canadian Flight Test Center.
In 2002, Hopkins was selected as an Olmsted Scholar by the George and Carol Olmsted Foundation. Following six months
of language training at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California, he moved to Parma, Italy in 2003, where he
studied political science at the Università degli Studi di Parma. In 2005, Hopkins was assigned to the United States Air Force
Rapid Capabilities Office at the Pentagon, where he served as a project engineer and program manager. In 2008, Hopkins
was selected as a special assistant to the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, where he worked until he commenced
astronaut training.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Hopkins was selected in July 2009 as one of 14 members of the 20th NASA astronaut class. He
graduated from Astronaut Candidate Training in November 2011, which included scientific and technical briefings, intensive
instruction in International Space Station systems, Extravehicular Activity (EVA), robotics, physiological training, T-38
flight training and water and wilderness survival training.
Expedition 37/38 to the International Space Station - On September 25, 2013, Hopkins launched from the Baikonur
Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan along with Russian cosmonauts Oleg Kotov and Sergey Ryazanskiy. They were welcomed to
the space station by Expedition 37 commander Fyodor Yurchikhin of Roscosmos, Karen Nyberg of NASA and Luca
Parmitano of the European Space Agency. They were later joined by Expedition 39 commander Koichi Wakata of the Japan
Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) and flight engineers Russian cosmonaut Mikhal Tyurin and U.S. astronaut Rick
Mastracchio. During his stay aboard the space station, Hopkins and Mastracchio conducted a pair of U.S. spacewalks to
change out a degraded pump module for a total of 12 hours and 58 minutes. Hopkins, Kotov and Ryazanskiy returned to
Earth on March 10, 2014 after 166 days in space. During the expedition, the crew completed 2,656 orbits of the Earth and
traveled more than 70 million miles.

