Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
July 2015

DOUGLAS G. HURLEY (COLONEL, U.S. MARINE CORPS, RETIRED)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: DUG-luss HER-lee

Follow Doug on Twitter

PERSONAL DATA: Born on October 21, 1966, in Endicott, New York, but considers
Apalachin, New York, his hometown. He is married with one child. Recreational interests
include hunting, cycling and attending as many NASCAR races as possible.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Owego Free Academy, in Owego, New York, 1984.
Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, Tulane University, Louisiana, 1988.
SPECIAL HONORS: Magna Cum Laude with Honors, Tulane University; Distinguished
Graduate, U.S. Marine Corps Officer Candidates School; Distinguished Graduate, Tulane
University NROTC; Distinguished Graduate, U.S. Navy Pilot Training. Stephen A. Click photo for downloadable high-res version
Hazelrigg Memorial Award for best Test Pilot/Engineer Team, Naval Strike Aircraft Test
Squadron. Awarded the Legion of Merit, the Defense Superior Service Medal, the Defense Meritorious Service Medal, the
Meritorious Service Medal, two Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medals and various other service awards. In April,
2015, he received the 2014 Tulane University Distinguished Alumni Award.
EXPERIENCE: Hurley received his commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps from the Naval
Reserve Officer Training Corps at Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana, in 1988. After graduation, he attended The
Basic School (TBS) in Quantico, Virginia, and later, the Infantry Officers Course. Following Aviation Indoctrination in
Pensacola, Florida, he entered flight training in Texas in 1989 and was designated a Naval Aviator in August 1991. He then
reported to Marine Fighter/Attack Training Squadron 101 at Marine Corps Air Station El Toro, California, for initial F/A-18
training. Upon completion of training, he was assigned to Marine All Weather Fighter/Attack Squadron 225, where he made
three overseas deployments to the Western Pacific. While assigned to VMFA (AW)-225, he attended the United States
Marine Aviation Weapons and Tactics Instructor (WTI) Course, the Marine Division Tactics Course (MDTC) and the
Aviation Safety Officers Course at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterrey, California. Over his 4 1/2 years with the
“Vikings,” he served as the Aviation Safety Officer and the Pilot Training Officer. Hurley was then selected to attend the
United States Naval Test Pilot School at Naval Air Station Patuxent River, Maryland, and began the course in January 1997.
After graduation in December 1997, he was assigned to the Naval Strike Aircraft Test Squadron (VX-23) as an F/A-18 Project
Officer and Test Pilot. At “Strike,” he participated in a variety of flight testing, including flying qualities, ordnance separation
and systems testing and became the first Marine pilot to fly the F/A-18 E/F Super Hornet. He was serving as the Operations
Officer when selected for the astronaut program. Twelve years into his NASA career, Hurley retired from the United States
Marine Corps after proudly serving more than 24 years.
Hurley has logged over 5,000 hours in more than 25 aircraft.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Selected as a pilot by NASA in July 2000, Hurley reported for training in August 2000. Following
the completion of 2 years of training and evaluation, he was assigned technical duties in the Astronaut Office, which have
included Kennedy Operations Support as a “Cape Crusader,” where he was the lead Astronaut Support Personnel (ASP) for
shuttle missions STS-107 and STS-121. He worked Shuttle Landing and Rollout, served on the Columbia Reconstruction
Team at Kennedy Space Center and in the Exploration Branch in support of the selection of the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew
Vehicle (MPCV). He also served as the NASA Director of Operations at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center (GCTC) in
Star City, Russia. In July 2009, Colonel Hurley completed his first spaceflight as pilot on STS-127, International Space
Station Assembly Mission 2J/A. Following that mission, Hurley served as the Astronaut Office Safety Chief. In July 2011, he
completed his second spaceflight as pilot on STS-135, International Space Station Mission ULF7. Following that flight, he
served as the Assistant Director, New Programs, for the Flight Crew Operations Directorate (FCOD) at Johnson Space Center
and following the merger of Flight Operations and Mission Operations in August, 2014, he became the Assistant Director for
the Commercial Crew Program for the newly formed Flight Operations Directorate (FOD). In July, 2015, he was one of four

astronauts chosen to be members of the cadre that will train and fly on the first commercial human test flights of either the
Boeing CST-100 or Space X Dragon vehicles. He has accumulated over 683 hours in space.
SPACEFLIGHT EXPERIENCE: STS-127, International Space Station Assembly Mission 2J/A, Endeavour (July 15 to July
31, 2009) delivered the Japanese-built Exposed Facility (JEM-EF) and the Experiment Logistics Module Exposed Section
(ELM-ES) to the space station. The crew completed the construction of the KIBO Japanese Experiment Module, installed
scientific experiments on its Exposed Facility and delivered critical spare parts and replacement batteries to the orbital complex
in addition to transferring 24,638 pounds of hardware and 1,225 pounds of water to the station. While the shuttle was docked,
the mission featured a record 13 astronauts working aboard the space station, representing all five International Partners: NASA,
the Russian Space Agency, the Canadian Space Agency (CSA), the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Japanese Space
Agency (JAXA). The 16-day mission included five spacewalks and was accomplished in 248 orbits of the Earth, traveling
6,547,853 miles in 15 days, 16 hours, 44 minutes and 58 seconds.
STS-135/ULF7, Atlantis (July 8 to July 21, 2011) carried the “Raffaello” Multi-Purpose Logistics Module (MPLM) to deliver
supplies, logistics and spare parts to the International Space Station. The mission also flew a system to investigate the potential
for robotically refueling existing spacecraft and returned a failed ammonia pump module to help NASA better understand the
failure mechanism and improve pump designs for future systems. STS-135 was the 33rd flight of Atlantis, the 37th shuttle
mission to the space station and the 135th and final mission of NASA’s Space Shuttle Program. The mission, which included
one spacewalk by Expedition 28’s Mike Fossum and Ron Garan, was accomplished in 200 orbits of the Earth, traveling
5,284,862 miles in 12 days, 18 hours, 27 minutes and 56 seconds.

