Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
November 2015

CHRISTINA H. KOCH
NASA ASTRONAUT
Follow Christina on Twitter

Video Q&A with Christina

Follow Christina on Instagram

Follow Christina on Facebook

PERSONAL DATA: Born in Michigan, considers her hometown to be Jacksonville, North
Carolina and most recently resided in Livingston, Montana. She is married to Robert Koch.
Her parents are Barbara Johnsen of Frederick, Maryland and Dr. Ronald Hammock of
Jacksonville, North Carolina. Koch enjoys backpacking, rock climbing, paddling, sailing,
running, yoga, community service, photography and travel.
EDUCATION: Graduated from the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics in
Durham, North Carolina (1997). She attended North Carolina State University in Raleigh,
North Carolina, where she earned a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (2001), a
Bachelor of Science in Physics and an Master of Science in Electrical Engineering (2002).

Click photo for downloadable
high-res version

SPECIAL HONORS: NASA Group Achievement Award, NASA Juno Mission Jupiter Energetic Particle Detector
Instrument, 2012; Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Invention of the Year nominee, 2009; United States
Congress Antarctic Service Medal with Winter-Over distinction, 2005; NASA Group Achievement Award, NASA Suzaku
Mission X-ray Spectrometer Instrument, 2005; Astronaut Scholar, Astronaut Scholarship Foundation, 2000 to 2001.
EXPERIENCE: Koch has experience both in space science instrument development and remote scientific field engineering.
Upon graduation, she worked as an Electrical Engineer at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center’s Laboratory for High Energy
Astrophysics, where she contributed to scientific instruments on several NASA missions studying cosmology and
astrophysics. During this time, she also served as Adjunct Faculty at Montgomery College where she led a Physics
Laboratory course. Koch moved on to become a Research Associate in the United States Antarctic Program from 2004 to
2007. She completed a winter-over season at the Admunsen-Scott South Pole Station and a season at Palmer Station. While
in Antarctica, she was a member of the Firefighting Teams and Ocean/Glacier Search and Rescue Teams. From 2007 to
2009, Koch returned to space science instrument development as an Electrical Engineer at the Johns Hopkins University
Applied Physics Laboratory’s Space Department. She contributed to instruments studying radiation particles for NASA
missions, including Juno and the Van Allen Probes. During this time, she volunteered as a tutor at Anne Arundel Community
College in various science and mathematics subjects. In 2010, Koch returned to remote scientific field work with tours
including Palmer Station in Antartica and multiple winter seasons at Summit Station in Greenland. In 2012, Koch continued
work at remote scientific bases, now with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). She served as a
Field Engineer at NOAA’s Global Monitoring Division Baseline Observatory in Barrow Alaska, and then as Station Chief of
the American Samoa Observatory. During this time, she participated in many opportunities for educational outreach to share
the scientific work being done at these remote stations.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Koch graduated from the NASA Academy program at Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC) in
2001. She worked as an Electrical Engineer in the Laboratory for High Energy Astrophysics at GSFC from 2002 to 2004.
Koch was selected in June 2013 as one of eight members of the 21 st NASA astronaut class. Her Astronaut Candidate Training
included scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in International Space Station systems, Extravehicular
Activity (EVA), robotics, physiological training, T-38 flight training, and water and wilderness survival training. She
completed astronaut candidate training in July 2015, and is now qualified for future assignment.

