Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
July 2015

ANDREW R. MORGAN (LT. COL., U.S. ARMY, M.D.)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Video Q&A with Andrew

PERSONAL DATA: Born in Morgantown, West Virginia, Dr. Morgan grew up in a
military family and moved between California, New York, Texas, Great Britain and
Delaware. His parents, Colonel (U.S. Air Force, Ret.) Richard and Janice Morgan
reside in New Castle, Pennsylvania. His wife, Stacey, is from Acton, Massachusetts.
They have four children. His hobbies include distance running, swimming, weightlifting, reading military history and family road trips.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Dover High School, Dover, Delaware in 1994; earned
a Bachelor of Science Degree in Environmental Engineering at the United States
Military Academy, West Point, New York in 1998; earned a Doctorate in Medicine
from Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, Maryland in
2002; completed residency in Emergency Medicine, Madigan University of Washington; Click photo for downloadable high-res version
Emergency Medicine Residency, Tacoma, Washington in 2005;
completed fellowship in Primary Care Sports Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University, Fairfax, Virginia in 2013.
ORGANIZATIONS: Fellow of the American College of Emergency Physicians, Special Operations Medical Association
(lifetime member), Wildnerness Medical Society, U.S. Parachute Association (lifetime member and D-license holder), West
Point Association of Graduates.
SPECIAL HONORS: U.S. Military Academy Superintendent’s Award, Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society;
Assistant Professor of Military and Emergency Medicine - Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences; Military
awards: Bronze Star Medal, Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, Joint Service Commendation
Medal (with oak leaf cluster), Army Commendation Medal (with two oak leaf clusters), Afghanistan Campaign Medal (two
campaign stars), Iraq Campaign Medal (one campaign star), NATO Service Medal, Combat Medical Badge, and Expert Field
Medical Badge.
EXPERIENCE: At the U.S. Military Academy, Dr. Morgan was a member of the West Point Parachute Team, the “Black
Knights,” where he participated in stadium demonstrations and in 1996 his team earned the Collegiate National Title in
competitive skydiving. Upon graduating from West Point, he attended medical school and completed his residency training
before volunteering for the Army special operations community. During his initial assignment as an attending physician at
Womack Army Medical Center, Fort Bragg, North Carolina, Dr. Morgan served as a medical team member in the Joint
Special Operations Command and worked as a part-time physician for the U.S. Army Parachute Team, the “Golden Knights,”
where he maintained his parachuting skills. He subsequently became the Battalion Surgeon for 1 st Battalion, 3rd Special
Forces Group (Airborne) “Desert Eagles.” After three years serving on flight, combat dive, and airborne status with the
Desert Eagles, Dr. Morgan was selected for a strategic special operations assignment in the Washington, DC area.
Throughout Dr. Morgan’s assignments with special operations units he deployed in direct support of combat operations in
Iraq, Afghanistan and Africa. Dr. Morgan’s medical qualifications include: board certification in emergency medicine,
subspecialty certification in primary care sports medicine (CAQSM), and national registry in musculoskeletal ultrasound
(RMSK). He also holds ratings as a military flight surgeon and special operations diving medical officer. His military skills
and professional training include: Command and General Staff College, Ranger School, Combat Diver Qualification Course,
Airborne and Freefall (HALO/HAHO) Parachutist Courses, and multiple high threat environment survivability courses.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Dr. Morgan was selected in June 2013 as one of eight members of the 21st NASA astronaut class.
In July 2015 he completed Astronaut Candidate Training that included Russian language training, scientific and technical
briefings, intensive instruction in International Space Station systems, Extravehicular Activity (EVA), robotics, physiological

training, T-38 flight training, and water and wilderness survival training. Dr. Morgan is now qualified for future assignment
and is currently assigned to the EVA/Robotics branch.

