Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
January 2016

JEFFREY N. WILLIAMS (COLONEL, U.S. ARMY, RETIRED)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: JEFF-ree WILL-yums

Follow Jeffrey on Twitter

Follow Jeffrey on Facebook

Follow Jeffrey on Instagram

PERSONAL DATA: Born January 18, 1958, in Superior, Wisconsin, but considers
Winter, Wisconsin to be his hometown. Married to the former Anna-Marie Moore of
Newburgh, New York. They have two adult sons, two daughters-in-law, and three
grandchildren. Enjoys running, fishing, camping, skiing, scuba diving and woodworking.
Williams’ parents, Lloyd D. and Eunice A. Williams, are deceased.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Winter High School, Winter, Wisconsin, in 1976;
Click photo for downloadable high-res version
received a Bachelor of Science Degree in Applied Science and Engineering from the U.S.
Military Academy (USMA) in 1980, a Master of Science Degree in Aeronautical Engineering and the Degree of Aeronautical
Engineer from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, both in 1987, a Master of Arts Degree in National Security and Strategic
Studies from the U.S. Naval War College in 1996, and an honorary Doctorate of Business Administration from Johnson and Wales
University in 2007.
ORGANIZATIONS: Society of Experimental Test Pilots, Association of Space Explorers, Army Aviation Association of
America, USMA Association of Graduates, Officer Christian Fellowship.
SPECIAL HONORS: Graduated first in U.S. Naval Test Pilot School class 103 in 1993; Admiral William Adger Moffett Award
for Excellence in Aeronautical Engineering in 1988, Naval Postgraduate School; Daedalian Foundation Fellowship Award for
Graduate Study in Aeronautics in 1985. Awarded two Defense Superior Service Medals, two Legions of Merit, two Meritorious
Service Medals, the Army Commendation Medal, three NASA Space Flight Medals, NASA Distinguished Service and Exceptional
Service Medals, and various other service awards along with Master Army Aviator, Senior Space and Parachutist badges.
MILITARY EXPERIENCE: As a cadet at USMA, Williams competed on the West Point sport parachute team and also held
ratings of sport parachute jumpmaster and instructor. He received his commission as a second lieutenant May 1980 and was
designated an Army aviator in September 1981. Williams completed a three-year assignment in Germany where he served in the
3rd Armored Division’s aviation battalion. Following his return to the United States, Williams completed a graduate program in
Aeronautical Engineering, and was subsequently selected for an Army assignment at the Johnson Space Center (JSC), where he
served in various capacities supporting the Space Shuttle Program. In 1992, Williams attended the Naval Test Pilot School, and
subsequently served as an experimental test pilot and the Flight Test Division Chief in the Army’s Airworthiness Qualification Test
Directorate at Edwards Air Force Base, California. Williams retired from active duty in 2007 after more than 27 years of service.
Williams has logged approximately 3,000 hours in more than 50 different aircraft.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Williams was selected for the NASA Astronaut Class of 1996. In addition to his space flights, he has
performed various technical duties in both the space shuttle and International Space Station Programs. Williams has served in the
Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA), Space Station, and Soyuz Branches of the Astronaut Office, led the development of a space shuttle
cockpit upgrade, and completed temporary assignments at Marshall Space Flight Center supporting the test and evaluation of the
International Space Station Laboratory Module and at NASA Headquarters in support of legislative affairs. In July 2002, Williams
commanded a nine-day coral reef expedition operating from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Aquarius
undersea habitat off the coast of Florida. Williams has also served on the space station backup flight crews for Expeditions 12, 19,
and 20. During his three flights, Williams logged over 362 days in space, including more than 19 hours in three EVAs.

SPACE FLIGHT EXPERIENCE: Williams served as the flight engineer and lead space walker for space shuttle flight
STS-101. STS-101 Atlantis (May 19 through May 29, 2000) was the third shuttle mission devoted to space station
construction. Objectives for the 10-day flight included transporting and installing over 5,000 pounds of equipment and
supplies, and included Williams’ first EVA lasting nearly 7 hours.
In 2006, Williams served as flight engineer for Expedition 13, launching on March 29 on the Russian Soyuz TMA-8 from
Baikonur, Kazakhstan and docking with the station on March 31. During the six-month tour of duty aboard the International
Space Station, Williams performed two successful space walks (one Russia and one USA) logging an additional 12 hours and
25 minutes of EVA, and also saw the arrival of two space shuttle missions, the resumption of construction of the orbiting
laboratory, and the restoration of a three-person expedition crew. The Expedition 13 mission concluded on September 28 with
a safe landing in central Kazakhstan.
On his third space flight, Williams served as a Flight Engineer on Expedition 21 and commanded Expedition 22, again
launching from Baikonur on Soyuz TMA-16 on September 30 and docking on October 2, 2009. During his second 6-month
stay onboard the International Space Station, Williams again saw the arrival of two space shuttle missions as well as the
integration of a Russian Mini-Research Module, the US Tranquility Module, and the Cupola. His third flight concluded on
March 18, 2010, with the Soyuz landing in Kazakhstan.
Williams recently completed training as a backup for the one-year flight spanning Expeditions 43-46 that began in March
2015. He is currently in training for the prime crew for Expeditions 47, as Flight Engineer, and Expedition 48, as
Commander, scheduled to launch in March 2016.

