Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
October 2015

SERENA M. AUÑÓN (M.D.)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: SUH-ree-nuh ON-un

Follow Serena on Twitter

Video Q&A with Serena

PERSONAL DATA: Born on April 9, 1976, in Indianapolis, Indiana. Considers Fort
Collins, Colorado, to be her hometown. Recreational interests include basketball, softball,
martial arts, cricket, hiking and jet skiing.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Poudre High School, Fort Collins, Colorado in 1993.
Received a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from The George Washington
University, Washington, D.C., in 1997 and a Doctorate of Medicine from The University of
Texas - Health Science Center at Houston in 2001. Completed a three-year residency in
internal medicine at The University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) in Galveston, Texas,
in 2004, and then completed an additional year as chief resident in the Internal Medicine
Department in 2005. She also completed an aerospace medicine residency at UTMB as well
as a Master of Public Health in 2007. She is board certified in Internal and Aerospace Medicine.

Click photo for downloadable
high-res version

ORGANIZATIONS: American College of Physicians; American College of Preventive Medicine; Alpha Omega Alpha
Medical Honor Society; Aerospace Medical Association and Tau Beta Pi, The National Engineering Honor Society
SPECIAL HONORS: United States Air Force Flight Surgeons Julian Ward Award (2009), Outstanding UTMB Resident
Award (2007), William K. Douglas Award (2006), Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Society (2005), Thomas N. and Gleaves James
Award for Excellent Performance by a Third-Year Resident in Internal Medicine (2004).
EXPERIENCE: Dr. Auñón came to Johnson Space Center in August 2006, employed as a Flight Surgeon under the
UTMB/Wyle Bioastronautics contract. She spent more than nine months in Russia supporting medical operations for
International Space Station crew members in Star City, including water survival training in the Ukraine. Dr. Auñón served as
the Deputy Crew Surgeon for STS-127. She also held the role of Deputy Lead for Orion - Medical Operations.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Dr. Auñón was selected in July 2009 as one of 14 members of the 20th NASA astronaut class. She
graduated in November 2011 from Astronaut Candidate Training that included scientific and technical briefings, intensive
instruction in space station systems, Extravehicular Activities (EVAs), robotics, physiological training, T-38 flight training and
water and wilderness survival training. Currently, Dr. Auñón serves in the International Space Station Operations Branch to
handle medical issues and the Capsule Communicator (CAPCOM) Branch as a certified space station CAPCOM.

