Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
January 2016

JEANETTE J. EPPS (PH.D.)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: JUH-net EH-ps
Video Q&A with Jeanette

Follow Jeanette on Twitter

PERSONAL DATA: Born in Syracuse, New York. Enjoys traveling, reading, running,
mentoring, scuba diving and family.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Thomas J. Corcoran High School, Syracuse, New York in
1988; Bachelor of Science in Physics, LeMoyne College, 1992; Master of Science and
Doctorate of Philosophy in Aerospace Engineering, University of Maryland, 1994 and 2000.
ORGANIZATIONS: AIAA and Member of the Society for Science & the Public.
Click photo for downloadable
high-res version
SPECIAL HONORS/AWARDS: NASA GSRP Fellowship 1996-1997, 1997-1998 and
1998-1999; Exceptional Performance Award 2003, 2004 and 2008; Inducted into the
University of Maryland, Department of Aerospace Engineering, Academy of Distinguished Alumni 2012; Recipient of the
Glenn L. Martin Medal from the A. James Clark School of Engineering, University of Maryland, 2014.

EXPERIENCE: As a NASA Fellow during graduate school, Dr. Epps authored several highly referenced journal and
conference articles describing her research. Her graduate research involved extensive testing of composite swept-tip beams,
comparative analysis of analytical models and experimental data for shape memory alloys and the application of shape memory
alloy actuators for tracking helicopter rotor blades. After completing graduate school, Dr. Epps spent more than two years
working at Ford Motor Company as a Technical Specialist in the Scientific Research Laboratory. Before leaving Ford, she
completed proof-of-concept work on using magnetostrictive actuators to reduce vibrations that enter a vehicle via the
suspension control arms, which resulted in a provisional patent. Also while at Ford, Dr. Epps participated in research involving
automobile collision location detection and countermeasure systems, which resulted in the granting of a U.S. Patent. In 2002,
Dr. Epps joined the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) where she spent more than 7 years working as a Technical Intelligence
Officer. She received multiple performance rewards for her work at the CIA.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Dr. Epps was selected in July 2009 as 1 of 14 members of the 20th NASA astronaut class. Graduate
from Astronaut Candidate Training that included scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in International Space
Station systems, Extravehicular Activity (EVA), robotics, physiological training, T-38 flight training and water and wilderness
survival training.

