Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
November 2015

JACK D. FISCHER (COLONEL, USAF)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: JAK FISH-er

Follow Jack on Twitter

PERSONAL DATA: Born in 1974, Fischer’s hometown is Louisville, Colorado. He
is married to the former Elizabeth Simonson from Boulder, Colorado. They have two
daughters, Sariah and Bethany. Fischer’s father, Gary Fischer, is deceased, and his
mother, JoBelle Fischer, still lives near Louisville, Colorado.
EDUCATION: Centaurus High School, Lafayette, Colorado, 1992; Bachelor of
Science in Astronautical Engineering, U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado, 1996;
Master of Science in Aeronautics and Astronautics, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 1998.
ORGANIZATIONS: Society of Experimental Test Pilots, Order of Daedalians,
Click photo for downloadable high-res version
Red River Valley Fighter Pilots Association, U.S. Air Force Academy Association of
Graduates, M.I.T. Alumni Association, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Tau Beta Pi and Sigma Gamma
Tau Engineering Honor Societies.
SPECIAL HONORS/AWARDS: U.S. Air Force Academy Distinguished Graduate and Outstanding Cadet in Astronautics
(1996); Draper Fellow, Draper Labs/Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1996 to 1998); Liethen-Tittle, Aaron C-Dot George
and Onizuka Prop Wash Awards and Distinguished Graduate, U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School; Society of Experimental Test
Pilots, Ray E. Tenhoff Outstanding Paper Award and Herman R. Fish Salmon Technical Publications Award (2008). Military
decorations include two Meritorious Service Medals, four Air Medals, eight Aerial Achievement Medals, Combat Action Medal,
Commendation Medal and Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal. NASA awards include three JSC Superior
Achievement Awards, Stephen D. Thorne Aviation Safety Award, and numerous commendations and group awards for
innovation and achievement.
EXPERIENCE: After graduating from Cadet Squadron CS-26 Mighty Barons, as a member of the U.S. Air Force Academy
Class of 1996, Fischer went on to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to complete his master’s degree before attending
Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training at Laughlin Air Force Base, Texas, in 1998. He then attended F-15E Strike Eagle
training at Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base, North Carolina, before being assigned as an operational pilot in the 391st Fighter
Squadron Bold Tigers. Fischer served two combat tours in Southwest Asia following September 11, 2001, in support of
Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Southern Watch over Afghanistan and Iraq. He was then selected to attend the U.S.
Air Force Test Pilot School (TPS) at Edwards Air Force Base, California, and graduated with Class 03-B in June 2004. After
TPS, he transitioned to F-15 and weapons testing with the 40th Flight Test Squadron Red Devils at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida,
where he served as project pilot for numerous programs and weapons, including the Small Diameter Bomb. In 2006, Fischer
again returned to Edwards Air Force Base, as part of the F-22 Combined Test Force and 411th Flight Test Squadron testing the
world’s only air-dominance fighter, the F-22 Raptor. In 2008, he was selected for in-residence Air Command and Staff College
as a Strategic Policy Intern in Washington, D.C. While serving two six-month rotations at the Pentagon, Fischer served in the
Chairman’s Action Group for the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and in the Space and Intelligence Capabilities Office
with the Senior Advisor for the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Fischer was selected in July 2009 as a member of the 20th NASA astronaut class. He completed
astronaut candidate training in July 2011, and is now qualified for future assignment. He has worked in the CAPCOM, Soyuz,
International Space Station (ISS) Operations and ISS Integration branches of the Astronaut Office. He is currently in the
Exploration branch of the Astronaut Office working on the next generation of human space exploration vehicles. He is currently
in training as Flight Engineer for Expeditions 52 and 53, scheduled to launch in May 2017.

