Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
January 2016

VICTOR J. GLOVER, JR (COMMANDER, U.S. NAVY)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Follow Victor on Twitter

Video Q&A with Victor

PERSONAL DATA: Born in Pomona, California. Married to the former Dionna Odom
of Berkeley, California. They have four children. His mother lives in southern California
and his father and step-mother live in Prosper, Texas.
EDUCATION: Ontario High School, Ontario, California, 1994. Bachelor of Science,
General Engineering, California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo,
California, 1999. Master of Science, Flight Test Engineering (USAF TPS), Air
University, Edwards Air Force Base, California, 2007. Master of Science, Systems
Engineering (PD-21), Naval Postgraduate School, 2009. Master of Military Operational
Art and Science, Air University, Montgomery, Alabama. 2010.
ORGANIZATIONS: Dean’s Advisory Council, College of Engineering, Cal Poly, San
Luis Obispo; Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Incorporated; Society of Experimental Test
Pilots, Member; National Society of Black Engineers; International Council on Systems
Engineering (INCOSE); Tailhook Association - Life Member.

Click photo for downloadable
high-res version

SPECIAL HONORS: Ontario High School 1994 athlete of the year; Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo, Service to the Community
Award and community service notation on transcripts; Distinguished Graduate and Regimental Commander, United States
Navy Officer Candidate School; Onizuka Prop Wash Award, United States Air Force Test Pilot School; Distinguished
Graduate, Air Command and Staff College; Named one of Jet Magazine’s inaugural 40 under 40 in 2013. Military
decorations include a Navy Commendation Medal and two Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medals.
EXPERIENCE: Following commissioning Glover began preflight training in Pensacola, Florida and completed his
advanced flight training in Kingsville, Texas, earning his wings of gold on December 14, 2001. In 2002, Glover reported to
the Marine Fleet Replacement Squadron, VMFAT-101, in Miramar, California. In 2003, after completing the F/A-18C
syllabus, he was assigned to the Blue Blasters of Strike Fighter Squadron VFA-34 in Oceana, Virginia. With the Blue
Blasters he completed the final deployment of the USS John F. Kennedy (CV-67) in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom.
While deployed, he completed a Space Systems Certificate from the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS). Glover was then
selected as the United States Navy’s exchange pilot to attend the Air Force Test Pilot School. During the one-year
experimental test piloting course, he flew more than 30 aircraft in the United States and Italy. On June 9, 2007, he was
designated a test pilot. Glover then served as a test pilot with the Dust Devils of Air Test and Evaluation Squadron VX-31 in
China Lake, California, testing various weapons systems on the F/A -18 Hornet, Super Hornet and EA-18G Growler. In his
off-duty hours, he earned a Master of Science degree in Systems Engineering via NPS in Monterey, California. In 2009,
Glover received orders to the Air Command and Staff College at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. Following graduation,
Glover reported to the Dambusters of Strike Fighter Squadron VFA-195, in Atsugi, Japan, where he served as a Department
Head. With the Dambusters, he deployed three times to various locations in the Pacific Ocean. In 2012, Glover was selected
for the Legislative Fellowship. He reported to the Office of Legislative Affairs in Washington, DC, and was assigned to the
office of a United States senator. While in Washington DC, he completed a Certificate in Legislative Studies at Georgetown
University. Glover was a Legislative Fellow in the United States Senate when selected as an astronaut candidate.
Glover accumulated 2,000 flight hours in more than 40 aircraft, over 400 carrier arrested landings and 24 combat missions.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Glover was selected in 2013 as one of eight members of the 21 st NASA astronaut class. In 2015 he
completed Astronaut Candidate Training including scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in International
Space Station systems, Extravehicular Activity (EVA), robotics, physiological training, T-38 flight training, and water and
wilderness survival training. Glover is now qualified for future assignment and working in the Exploration branch.

