Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
July 2015

NICK HAGUE (LT. COL, U. S. AIR FORCE)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Follow Nick on Twitter

Video Q&A with Nick

PERSONAL DATA: Born in 1975 in Belleville, Kansas, but considers Hoxie, Kansas his
hometown. He is married to Lt. Col. Catie Hague, U.S. Air Force. They are the proud
parents of two sons. Hague enjoys exercise, flying, snow skiing and scuba. His parents, Don
and Bev Hague, reside in Gering, Nebraska. His wife’s parents, Charlie Devlin and Clare
Keenan, reside in Ossining, New York.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Hoxie High School, Hoxie, Kansas, in 1994. Earned a
Bachelor of Science in Astronautical Engineering from the United States Air Force Academy
in 1998. Earned a Master of Science in Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2000.

Click photo for downloadable high-res version

SPECIAL HONORS: Distinguished Graduate, United States Air Force Academy; Distinguished Graduate and top flight test
engineer in the United States Air Force Test Pilot School Class 03A; two Defense Meritorious Service Medals; Meritorious
Service Medal; six Air Medals, two Aerial Achievement Medals; two Air Force Commendation Medals and the Air Force
Combat Action Medal, as well as various other campaign and service awards.
EXPERIENCE: Hague was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force in May 1998. In August 2000, he
was assigned to Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, New Mexico, where he worked on advanced spacecraft technologies.
In 2003, he attended the flight test engineering course at the United States Air Force Test Pilot School, Edwards Air Force
Base, California. Following graduation in 2004, he worked at the 416th Flight Test Squadron, testing F-16, F-15 and T-38
aircraft. In late 2004, he deployed for five months to Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, conducting experimental
airborne reconnaissance. In 2006, Hague joined the Department of Astronautics faculty at the United States Air Force
Academy, Colorado, where he instructed courses in introductory astronautics, linear control system analysis and design, and
scuba. In 2009, Hague was selected for the Air Force Fellows program in Washington, D.C., where he was assigned as a
member of personal staff in the United States Senate, advising on matters of national defense and foreign policy. Following his
fellowship, he served in the Pentagon as a congressional appropriations liaison for United States Central Command. In 2012,
Hague was assigned to the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization, Crystal City, Virginia, as the Deputy
Division Chief for research and development, where he worked until he commenced astronaut training in 2013.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Hague was selected in June 2013, as one of eight members of the 21st NASA astronaut class. In
August 2013, he began Astronaut Candidate Training, which included scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in
International Space Station (ISS) systems, Extravehicular Activity (EVA), Russian Language training, Robotics, physiological
training, T-38 flight training and water and wilderness survival training. Hague completed astronaut candidate training in July
2015, and is now qualified for a future spaceflight assignment. He is currently serving in the International Space Station
Operations Branch supporting resource planning and operations.

