Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
December 2015

TIMOTHY L. KOPRA (COLONEL, U. S. ARMY, RET.)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: TIM-uh-thee COPE-rah
Follow Tim on Twitter

PERSONAL DATA: Born on April 9, 1963, in Austin, Texas. Married to the former
Dawn Lehman of Lewisburg, Kentucky. They have two children. He enjoys running,
swimming, reading, home improvement projects, and spending time with family and
friends. His mother, Martha Kopra, resides in Austin, Texas. His father, Dr. Lennart
Kopra, is deceased. Dawn’s parents, Charles and Betty Lehman, reside in Lewisburg,
Kentucky.
EDUCATION: McCallum High School, Austin, Texas, 1981. Bachelor of Science, United
Click photo for downloadable high-res version
States Military Academy, West Point, New York, 1985. Master of Science in Aerospace
Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 1995. Master of Strategic Studies, U.S. Army
War College, 2006. Masters of Business Administration, Columbia University and London Business School, 2013.
ORGANIZATIONS: Society of Experimental Test Pilots; Army Aviation Association of America; American Helicopter
Society; United States Military Academy Association of Graduates; West Point Society of Greater Houston; Columbia
Business School Alumni Association, London Business School Alumni Club.
SPECIAL HONORS: Empire Test Pilot School Award for the Best Developmental Test Thesis, Class 110, U.S. Navy Test
Pilot School (1996); Silver and Bronze Order of Saint Michael, Army Aviation Award (2009, 1999). Awarded the Legion of
Merit, Bronze Star Medal, two Meritorious Service Medals, Air Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement
Medal, NASA Space Flight Medal, NASA Distinguished Service Medal, and various other service awards.
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE: Kopra received his commission as a second lieutenant from the United States Military
Academy in May 1985 and was designated as an Army aviator in August 1986. He then completed a three-year assignment at
Fort Campbell, Kentucky, where he served as an aeroscout platoon leader, troop executive officer, and squadron adjutant in the
101st Airborne Division’s air cavalry squadron. In 1990, he was assigned to the 3rd Armored Division in Hanau, Germany,
and was deployed to Southwest Asia, where he served in Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. He completed his tour in
Germany as an attack helicopter company commander and an operations officer. After returning to the United States and
completing graduate studies at Georgia Tech, he was selected in 1995 to attend the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School. Upon
graduation, he was assigned to the U.S. Army Aviation Technical Test Center, where he worked as an experimental test pilot
on various projects and served as the developmental test director for the Comanche helicopter program. Other military schools
include the Army Parachutist Course, Pathfinder Course, Air Assault Course, the Combined Services Staff School, and the
Command and General Staff College. Kopra retired from the U.S. Army in November 2010.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Kopra was assigned to NASA’s Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas in September 1998 as a
vehicle integration test engineer. In this position, he primarily served as an engineering liaison for space shuttle launch
operations and International Space Station hardware testing. He was actively involved in the contractor tests of the
Extravehicular Activity (EVA) interfaces for each of the space station truss segments.
Selected as an astronaut in July 2000, Kopra began his initial training the following month. Kopra completed two years of
intensive space shuttle, International Space Station, and T-38 flight training. He then served in the Space Station Branch of the
Astronaut Office, where he was involved in the testing of crew interfaces for two space station pressurized modules as well as
the implementation of support computers and operational Local Area Network on the station.

After completing a Russian language immersion course in Moscow, Russia, Kopra began training in July 2005 for a
long-duration space flight mission. In September 2006, Kopra served with a six-person crew aboard the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Aquarius underwater laboratory as part of NASA Extreme Environment Mission
Operations (NEEMO) 11. During the week-long mission that served as an analog for lunar operations, the crew tested space
suit design concepts, communication protocols, construction techniques, and the use of robotic devices. Kopra completed
training in Russia, Japan, Germany and Canada at each of the international partner training sites and served as a backup crew
member to Expeditions 16 and 17. He then served as prime crew member for Expedition 20. Kopra completed his first space
flight in 2009, logging two months in space and completing one spacewalk. Upon his return, Kopra was assigned as a mission
specialist for STS-133. After the launch was delayed, Kopra sustained an injury that prevented him from flying. He then
served as Chief of the Vehicle Integration Test Office and is now assigned as a flight engineer to Expedition 46 and
Commander for Expedition 47.
SPACE FLIGHT EXPERIENCE: On Expedition 20, Kopra served as a flight engineer aboard the International Space
Station. He launched with the STS-127 crew aboard the Space Shuttle Endeavour on July 15, 2009 and returned to Earth with
the STS-128 crew aboard the Space Shuttle Discovery on September 11, 2009. During the two shuttle missions and tour of
duty aboard station, Kopra performed one spacewalk totaling 5 hours and 32 minutes, executed assembly tasks with the space
station and Japanese robotic arms, and conducted numerous science experiments.
Kopra launched December 15, 2015 and is currently serving as Flight Engineer for Expedition 46. His next mission will be as
Commander on Expedition 47, beginning March 2016. He is scheduled to return to Earth May 2016.

