Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
January 2016

KJELL N. LINDGREN (M.D.)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: CHELL LIND-grin
Follow Kjell on Twitter

Follow Kjell on Instagram

PERSONAL DATA: Born in Taipei, Taiwan. Lived in the midwestern U.S., but spent
most of his childhood overseas living in England. Married to the former Kristiana Jones.
They have three children. His parents, Randahl and Anita Lindgren, reside in Burke,
Virginia. His sister, Niki Lindgren, lives in Los Angeles, California. Interests include
spending time with his family, running, reading, movies, photography, amateur astronomy
and church activities.
EDUCATION: Completed his freshman year at Lakenheath High School in the United
Kingdom. Participated in Virginia’s Governor’s School at William and Mary College
during the summer of 1990. Graduated from James W. Robinson Secondary School Fairfax, Click photo for downloadable high-res version
Virginia in 1991. Received a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology (minor in Mandarin Chinese) from the U.S. Air Force
Academy in 1995; a Master of Science degree in Cardiovascular Physiology from Colorado State University (CSU) in 1996;
and a Doctorate of Medicine from the University of Colorado in 2002. Completed a three-year residency in emergency
medicine, including a chief resident year at Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 2005. Completed
a National Library of Medicine Post-Doctoral Fellowship and Master of Health Informatics at the University of Minnesota in
2006. Completed a two-year residency in aerospace medicine (2008) and a Master of Public Health (2007) at the University
of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) in Galveston, Texas. Dr. Lindgren is board certified in emergency medicine and aerospace
medicine.
ORGANIZATIONS: Fellow of the Aerospace Medical Association; Fellow of the American Academy of Emergency
Medicine; Member of the Association of Space Explorers; American Medical Informatics Association; Alpha Omega Alpha
Medical Honor Society; Space Medicine Association; Christian Medical and Dental Associations and National Eagle Scout
Association.
SPECIAL HONORS: NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal (2013); UTMB Outstanding Resident Award (2008);
Distinguished Graduate, U.S. Air Force Primary Flight Surgeon Course (2007); William K. Douglas Aerospace Medicine
Scholarship (2007); Hippocrates Award, University of Colorado School of Medicine (2002); Richard C. Hardin Award,
University of Colorado School of Medicine (2001); Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Society (2001); Edgar and Marion Adler
Scholar, University of Colorado School of Medicine (2001, 2002); U.S. Air Force Achievement Medal (1998).
EXPERIENCE: At the U.S. Air Force Academy, Dr. Lindgren was a member of the “Wings of Blue” parachute team, where
he served as an instructor, a jumpmaster and a member of the academy’s intercollegiate national championship team. As a part
of his masters studies at CSU, Dr. Lindgren conducted cardiovascular countermeasure research in the Space Physiology Lab at
NASA Ames Research Center in Sunnyvale, California. He conducted high-altitude physiology research during medical
school. Dr. Lindgren began working at Johnson Space Center in 2007. As a Wyle-University of Texas Medical Branch flight
surgeon, he supported International Space Station (ISS) training and operations in Star City, Russia and water survival training
in the Ukraine. At the time of his selection to the astronaut corps, he was serving as the deputy crew surgeon for STS-130 and
Expedition 24.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Dr. Lindgren was selected in June 2009 as one of 14 members of the 20th NASA astronaut class.
Following the completion of two years of training and evaluation, he was assigned technical duties in the Spacecraft
Communicator (CAPCOM) branch and Extravehicular Activity (EVA) branch. Dr. Lindgren served as lead CAPCOM for ISS
Expedition 30.

SPACEFLIGHT EXPERIENCE: Expedition 44/45 - July 2015 to December 2015, with crewmates Russian Space
Agency cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko and Japanese astronaut Kimiya Yui, Lindgren launched on the Soyuz TMA-17M (callsign
Antares) from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on July 23, 2015 and docked to the station after 4 orbits. They joined
Expedition 44 crewmembers Russian cosmonaut Gennady Padalka and “One Year Mission” crewmembers NASA astronaut
Scott Kelly and Russian cosmonaut Mikhail Kornienko. During their 141 days aboard the station, the Antares crew participated
in over a hundred different scientific experiments including research in human physiology, fluid and combustion physics, Earth
and space science and technology development. Their research included work with the “Veggie” lettuce experiment which
represented the first time a US crew has gotten to eat a crop grown on orbit. The crew conducted dozens of repairs and
enhancements to the station’s systems, including the installation of the NORS high pressure gas replenishment system and
internal cabling in preparation for the commercial crew vehicle docking and the Node 1 galley. Dr. Lindgren and Exp 45
commander Scott Kelly conducted 2 spacewalks in late 2015. During their first spacewalk (EVA 32) Lindgren installed a thermal
blanket on the Alpha-Magnetic Spectrometer and routed external cables, while Kelly performed maintenance on the ISS robotic
arm. Their second spacewalk (EVA 33) focused on maintenance of the ISS external thermal control system. Lindgren, Yui and
Kononenko landed their Soyuz spacecraft in Kazakhstan on December 11, 2015.
Flight Engineer on Expeditions 44 and 45. He has logged 141 days in space and 15 hours and 4 minutes of spacewalk time.

