Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
July 2015

JESSICA U. MEIR (PH.D.)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Follow Jessica on Twitter

Video Q&A with Jessica

PERSONAL DATA: Born and raised in Caribou, Maine. Recreational interests include
skiing, hiking, running, cycling, soccer, and SCUBA diving. She is a private pilot and is
conversational in Swedish.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Caribou High School, Caribou, Maine. Earned a Bachelor
of Arts Degree in Biology from Brown University in 1999. Earned a Master of Science
Degree in Space Studies from International Space University in 2000. Earned a Doctorate in
Marine Biology (diving physiology) from Scripps Institution of Oceanography (UCSD) in
2009
ORGANIZATIONS: American Physiological Society, Society for Experimental Biology,
Canadian Society of Zoologists, Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology,
Adventurers and Scientists for Conservation.

Click photo for downloadable
high-res version

SPECIAL HONORS: American Physiological Society Early Career Advocacy Science Policy Fellowship (2013); National
Science Foundation International Research Post-doctoral Fellowship (2009); Philanthropic Educational Organization (PEO)
Scholar Award (2008); Achievement Rewards for College Scientists (ARCS) Fellowship (2006); Department of Defense
National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate (NDSEG) Fellowship (2003); Lockheed Martin Space Operations
(LMSO) Special Recognition Award (2002); LMSO Employee of the Month (2002); NASA JSC Space and Life Sciences
Directorate Special Professional Achievement Award (2002); Lockheed Martin Technology Services “Lightning Award”
(2002).
EXPERIENCE: For her Ph.D. research, Dr. Meir studied the diving physiology of marine mammals and birds, focusing on
oxygen depletion in diving emperor penguins (Antarctic field research) and elephant seals (northern California). She
investigated the high-flying bar-headed goose during her post-doctoral research at the University of British Columbia,
training geese to fly in a wind tunnel while obtaining various physiological measurements in reduced oxygen conditions. In
2012, Dr. Meir accepted a position as Assistant Professor at the Harvard Medical School/Massachusetts General Hospital,
where she continued her research on the physiology of animals in extreme environments. She also took part in Smithsonian
Institution diving expeditions to the Antarctic and Belize, and has been very active with scientific outreach efforts.
NASA EXPERIENCE: From 2000 to 2003, Dr. Meir worked for Lockheed Martin’s Human Research Facility (NASA
JSC), supporting human physiology research on the space shuttle and International Space Station. During this time, she also
participated in research flights on NASA’s reduced gravity aircraft and served as an aquanaut crewmember in the Aquarius
underwater habitat for the 4th NASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations (NEEMO) mission. Dr. Meir was selected
in June 2013 as one of eight members of the 21st NASA astronaut class. Her Astronaut Candidate Training included
scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in International Space Station systems, Extravehicular Activity (EVA),
robotics, physiological training, T-38 flight training, and water and wilderness survival training. She completed astronaut
candidate training in July 2015, and is now qualified for future assignment.

