Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
November 2015

KATHLEEN (KATE) RUBINS (PH.D.)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: KATH-lean ROO-bens

Follow Kate on Twitter

PERSONAL DATA: Born in 1978 in Farmington, Connecticut, and raised in Napa,
California, where her father, Jim, still resides. Her mother, Ann Hallisey resides in Davis,
California. She enjoys running, cycling, swimming, flying, scuba diving and reading. Kate
is married to Michael Magnani. Michael’s parents, Ellen and Gil, reside in Homewood,
California.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Vintage High School in 1996, received a Bachelor of
Science degree in Molecular Biology from the University of California, San Diego, in 1999
and a Ph.D. in Cancer Biology in 2005 from Stanford University Medical School
Biochemistry Department and Microbiology and Immunology Department.

Click photo for downloadable high-res version

ORGANIZATIONS: American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), American Society of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene (ASTMH), American Society for Virology (ASV), RNA Society, Chi Omega, American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA)
SPECIAL HONORS: Popular Science’s Brilliant Ten (2009), National Science Foundation Predoctoral Fellowship (2000),
Stanford Graduate Fellowship - Gabilan Fellow (2000), UCSD Emerging Leader of the Year (1998), Order of Omega Honor
Society Scholarship Award (1998)
EXPERIENCE: Dr. Rubins conducted her undergraduate research on HIV-1 integration in the Infectious Diseases Laboratory
at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies. She analyzed the mechanism of HIV integration, including several studies of HIV1 Integrase inhibitors and genome-wide analyses of HIV integration patterns into host genomic DNA. She obtained her Ph.D.
from Stanford University and, with the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases and the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, Dr. Rubins and colleagues developed the first model of smallpox infection. She also developed a
complete map of the poxvirus transcriptome and studied virus-host interactions using both in-vitro and animal model systems.
Dr. Rubins then accepted a Fellow/Principal Investigator position at the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research
(MIT/Cambridge, Massachusetts) and headed a lab of 14 researchers studying viral diseases that primarily affect Central and
West Africa. She traveled to the Democratic Republic of Congo to conduct research and supervise study sites. Work in the
Rubins Lab focused on poxviruses and host-pathogen interaction as well as viral mechanisms for regulating host cell mRNA
transcription, translation and decay. In addition, she conducted research on transcriptome and genome sequencing of filoviruses
(Ebola and Marburg) and Arenaviruses (Lassa Fever) and collaborative projects with the U.S. Army to develop therapies for
Ebola and Lassa viruses. Dr. Rubins has published and presented her work in numerous papers at international scientific
conferences and in scientific journals.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Rubins was selected in July 2009 as 1 of 14 members of the 20th NASA astronaut class. She recently
graduated from Astronaut Candidate Training, which included scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in
International Space Station (ISS) systems, Extravehicular Activity (EVA), robotics, physiological training, T-38 flight training
and water and wilderness survival training.
She is currently in training as Flight Engineer for Expeditions 48 and 49, scheduled to launch in May 2016.

