Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
December 2015

SCOTT D. TINGLE (CAPTAIN, U. S. NAVY)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: SKOT TING-le

Follow Scott on Twitter

Video Q&A with Scott

PERSONAL DATA: Born in Attleboro, Massachusetts, but considers his hometown as
Randolph, Massachusetts. Married to the former Raynette Mahelona of Kailua, Hawaii.
They have three children.
EDUCATION: Graduated from Blue Hills Regional Vocational Technical High School,
Canton, Massachusetts, in 1983. Earned a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering
from Southeastern Massachusetts University in 1987. Earned a Master of Science in
Mechanical Engineering with a specialty in fluid mechanics and propulsion from Purdue
University, West Lafayette, Indiana, in 1988.

Click photo for downloadable
high-res version

ORGANIZATIONS: Society of Experimental Test Pilots, Experimental Aircraft Association,
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Tailhook Association, U.S. Navy Test Pilot School Alumni Association,
Purdue University Alumni Association, University of Massachusetts Alumni Association, Save the Children.

SPECIAL HONORS: Awarded a Meritorious Service Medal, three Air Medals, six Navy Commendation Medals, including
a Combat V, four Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medals and various unit commendations. Graduated magna cum
laude from Southeastern Massachusetts University. Outstanding Graduate of U.S. Navy Test Pilot School Class 113.
EXPERIENCE: Following graduate school, Captain Tingle spent three years with the Aerospace Corporation, El Segundo,
California, as a member of technical staff in their Propulsion Department. He was commissioned as a naval officer in 1991
and earned his wings of gold as a naval aviator in 1993. He began his operational flying career in 1994 with the Blue
Diamonds of VFA-146 based in Lemoore, California. He deployed to the Western Pacific and North Arabian Gulf with
Carrier Air Wing Nine aboard USS Nimitz. Following graduation from Navy Test Pilot School in 1998, he performed as an
operational test pilot for the FA-18E/F Super Hornet program with the Vampires of VX-9, located at China Lake, California.
Tingle then completed a CAG Paddles tour flying FA-18A/C Hornets with Carrier Air Wing Eleven (CVW-11) aboard USS
Carl Vinson. After a tour as assistant operations officer with the Strike Fighter Wing Pacific and instructor pilot with VFA122, he completed a department head tour as safety officer, maintenance officer and operations officer while flying the FA18A Hornet with the Warhawks of VFA-97 (Lemoore, California). Tingle completed a deployment with CVW-11 to the
Western Pacific/North Arabian Gulf and also deployed with Marine Air Group Twelve (MAG-12) to Iwakuni, Japan. In
2005, Tingle returned to Patuxent River, Maryland, as the ship suitability department head and test pilot with the Salty Dogs
of VX-23. Here he tested FA-18C Hornet, FA-18E/F Super Hornet and EA-18G Growler aircraft and certified aircraft carrier
precision landing systems. Tingle was attached to PMA-201 as the assistant program manager/systems engineer for the
Standoff Land Attack Missile (SLAM) and Harpoon weapon systems when selected as an astronaut candidate. He has
accumulated more than 4,000 flight hours in 48 types of aircraft, 700 carrier arrestments and 54 combat missions.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Captain Tingle was selected in July 2009 as one of 14 members of the 20th NASA astronaut class.
His training included scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in International Space Station systems,
Extravehicular Activity (EVA), robotics, physiological training, T-38 flight training and water and wilderness survival
training.
He is currently assigned to International Space Station Expeditions 53 and 54 and is scheduled to launch aboard Soyuz 52S
(MS-06) in September of 2017.

