Biographical Data
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Houston, Texas 77058

National Aeronautics and
Space Administration
August 2015

MARK T. VANDE HEI (COLONEL, U.S. ARMY)
NASA ASTRONAUT
Pronunciation: MARK VAN-duh HI
Follow Mark on Twitter

PERSONAL DATA: Born in 1966 in Falls Church, Virginia. He and his wife, Julie, are
the proud parents of two children. He enjoys exercise, camping, windsurfing, and reading.
His parents, Thomas and Mary Vande Hei, reside in Chanhassen, Minnesota. Julie’s
mother, Patricia Murrell, resides in California. Julie’s father, Clyde Murrell, is deceased.
EDUCATION: Saint Joseph’s High School, Metuchen, New Jersey; Benilde-Saint
Margaret’s High School, Saint Louis Park, Minnesota, 1985; Bachelor of Science in
Physics, Saint John’s University, Collegeville, Minnesota, 1989; Master of Science in
Applied Physics, Stanford University, 1999.
Click photo for downloadable high-res version

ORGANIZATIONS: Member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States,
member of Sigma Pi Sigma, the physics honor society.
SPECIAL HONORS: Three Meritorious Service Medals; Joint Service Commendation Medal; Joint Meritorious Unit Award;
Southwest Asia Service Medal; various other campaign and service awards; NASA Achievement Medal; previous captain of
the Saint John’s Ranger Challenge Team.
EXPERIENCE: Vande Hei was commissioned through ROTC following graduation from Saint John's University in 1989.
After graduating from the Army’s Engineer Officer Basic Course and Ranger School, he reported to the 3rd Battalion, 325th
Infantry Regiment (Airborne Battalion Combat Team), Caserma Ederle, Italy. His roles there included combat engineer platoon
leader, heavy engineer platoon leader, cold-weather-training officer, and support platoon leader. As a combat engineer platoon
leader, he served in Iraq during Operation Provide Comfort. In 1994, he reported to the 4th Infantry Division (Mechanized) at
Fort Carson, Colorado. While there, Vande Hei served in the staff of the 299th and 4th Engineer Battalions, and then
commanded C Company, 4th Engineer Battalion. After completing a Master of Science Degree in 1999, he served as an
assistant professor in the Department of Physics at the United States Military Academy, West Point, New York. In 2003, he
reported to the Army’s 1st Space Battalion at Peterson Air Force Base, Colorado. There, he served as an Army space support
team leader, then as the battalion’s operations officer.
As an Army space support team leader,
Vande Hei deployed to Iraq for 12 months in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. Other military training Vande Hei completed
includes the Army Air Assault Course, Parachutist Course, German Winter Operations Course, Engineer Officer Advanced
Course, Battalion Maintenance Officers’ Course, Command and General Staff College, and the Space Operations Officer
Qualification Course.
NASA EXPERIENCE: Vande Hei reported to the Johnson Space Center in July 2006 to serve as a Capsule Communicator
(CAPCOM) in the Mission Control Center, Houston. He served as an International Space Station CAPCOM for Expeditions
15 to 20 and STS-122, 123, 124, 126 and 127.
Vande Hei was selected in June 2009 as a member of the 20th NASA astronaut class. He completed astronaut candidate training
in June 2011, after which he continued to serve as a CAPCOM. From June 2012 to May 2013, he served as the Astronaut
Office’s Director of Operations in Russia.
He is currently assigned to International Space Station Expeditions 51 and 52, expected to launch in March 2017.

